scripts/README.md, before:

# Scripts Directory

This directory contains executable scripts for training and running experiments with the ZSharp algorithm.

## Available Scripts

### `train.py`
Individual training script for running single experiments.

**Usage:**
```bash
python -m scripts.train --config configs/zsharp_baseline.yaml
python -m scripts.train --config configs/sgd_baseline.yaml --verbose
```

**Features:**
- Loads configuration from YAML files
- Supports both ZSharp and SGD optimizers
- Provides verbose output option
- Saves results automatically

### `experiment.py`
Comprehensive experiment runner for paper reproduction.

**Usage:**
```bash
python -m scripts.experiment                    # Run comparison experiments
python -m scripts.experiment --fast            # Run in fast mode
python -m scripts.experiment --hp-study       # Run hyperparameter study
```

**Features:**
- Runs multiple experiments for comparison
- Supports hyperparameter optimization
- Fast mode for testing
- Comprehensive logging and result saving

## Makefile Integration

All scripts are integrated with the project Makefile:

```bash
make run-train        # Run ZSharp training
make run-train-sgd    # Run SGD baseline
make run-train-quick  # Run quick experiment
make run-experiments  # Run comprehensive experiments
make demo             # Run quick demo
```

## Configuration Files

Scripts use configuration files from the `configs/` directory:
- `zsharp_baseline.yaml` - Standard ZSharp configuration
- `sgd_baseline.yaml` - SGD baseline for comparison
- `zsharp_quick.yaml` - Fast ZSharp training
- `sgd_quick.yaml` - Fast SGD training

Commit message:

Improve markdown documentation: remove emojis, fix math notation, eliminate redundancy
- Remove excessive emojis from all markdown files for professional appearance
- Fix mathematical notation in algorithm.md to use proper GitHub markdown syntax
- Remove redundant docs/README.md file that duplicated main README content
- Fix self-referential link in main README testing section
- Improve cross-references between documentation files
- Maintain clean, organized documentation structure

scripts/README.md, after:

# Scripts Directory

This directory contains executable scripts for training and running experiments with the ZSharp algorithm. For detailed usage instructions, see the [main README](../README.md) and [API documentation](../docs/api.md).

## Available Scripts

### `train.py`
Individual training script for running single experiments.

**Usage:**
```bash
python -m scripts.train --config configs/zsharp_baseline.yaml
python -m scripts.train --config configs/sgd_baseline.yaml --verbose
```

**Features:**
- Loads configuration from YAML files
- Supports both ZSharp and SGD optimizers
- Provides verbose output option
- Saves results automatically

### `experiment.py`
Comprehensive experiment runner for paper reproduction.

**Usage:**
```bash
python -m scripts.experiment                    # Run comparison experiments
python -m scripts.experiment --fast            # Run in fast mode
python -m scripts.experiment --hp-study       # Run hyperparameter study
```

**Features:**
- Runs multiple experiments for comparison
- Supports hyperparameter optimization
- Fast mode for testing
- Comprehensive logging and result saving

## Makefile Integration

All scripts are integrated with the project Makefile:

```bash
make run-train        # Run ZSharp training
make run-train-sgd    # Run SGD baseline
make run-train-quick  # Run quick experiment
make run-experiments  # Run comprehensive experiments
make demo             # Run quick demo
```

## Configuration Files

Scripts use configuration files from the `configs/` directory:
- `zsharp_baseline.yaml` - Standard ZSharp configuration
- `sgd_baseline.yaml` - SGD baseline for comparison
- `zsharp_quick.yaml` - Fast ZSharp training
- `sgd_quick.yaml` - Fast SGD training
